# Agile-Data-Science-2.0-Book-Review
My review of this useful book by Russell Jurney

Book Review: “Agile Data Science 2.0: Building Full-Stack Data Analytics Applications with Spark”, Russell Jurney.

I liked the look of this book because I wanted to know more about working in an Agile environment as a data scientist. Russell Jurney explains Agile quite comprehensively without being repetitive. Russell tells the reader why Agile is better than Waterfall, which is the way of working that code writing perfectionists are in continual danger of falling back to. One of the ways Agile is better is that a requirement under Agile is to publish frequently, even if the work is nowhere near complete. This is the excuse I was looking for, for the unfinished state of the work examples on my github!

The other stated aim of this book is “to provide a how-to guide for building analytics applications with data of any size using Python and Spark”. It does this by working through an example starting at the software installation right through to model tweaking, with references to the Agile environment throughout. This fully explained example of a modern data science workflow is why I would recommend this book to others like myself who come from more of a statistics background than a computer science background. The example data, by the way, is US flight arrivals, which many statisticians know of from Hadley Wickham’s “R for Data Science” book. My intention is to work through the whole Python based workflow in “Agile Data Science 2.0” and then see how much of the workflow could be R based, perhaps all of it. R would certainly make producing charts and tables easier, though there is no harm in an R user like myself becoming more familiar with Python.

I wanted to get the word out to aspiring data scientists about the value of this book, and then I’m intending to fully work through the example in the book myself. I’ll report back again on how much fun, or not, this turns out to be. I initially installed software on a Dos based PC in the early 90s (the software was LaTeX) and I still have terrifying flashbacks of how difficult it was. “Agile Data Science 2.0” has a website, and Professor Google is omnipresent, so hopefully everything will go smooth! “Agile Data Science 2.0” gives 3 options for running the book's example: using a virtual machine, installing the tools on your own computer or using Amazon AWS, with the last of these preferred. The book assumes you are working in a *nix environment, but “Windows via Cygwin is possible”. I’ve been on AWS a few times recently, spending a total of $10.52, surprisingly little given the amount of computing I did. This scaredy cat will be taking to the cloud rather than messing with manual installs or virtual machines!

This is the first time I have seen a complete stack described, having been so far preoccupied by questions like “What are Hadoop and MapReduce?” and “Does anyone even use SQL these days?” I should have gone straight to this book because it answers these questions and tells you what you need to know about quite a number of the other data science tools used by computer/data scientists. Tools used in this book include, for example, Kafka and MongoDB, with justification of why they are used and what they are used for. I’ll be using them myself when I do the example; everything is open source.

All up, an excellent book for a statistician looking to cross over. Statisticians will find the machine learning chapter very basic, and non statisticians would be well advised to acquaint themselves with R, perhaps with Wickham’s book, and do Hastie and Tibshirani’s “Statistical Learning” course through Stanford Lagunita. This book has helped me make sense of the computing side of data science and the reasons for making sure your environment is Agile.
